README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="http://nestjs.com/" target="blank"><img src="https://nestjs.com/img/logo-small.svg" width="200" alt="Nest Logo" /></a>
</p>

[circleci-image]: https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master?token=abc123def456
[circleci-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest

  <p align="center">A progressive <a href="http://nodejs.org" target="_blank">Node.js</a> framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications.</p>
    <p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="NPM Version" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="Package License" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nestjs/common.svg" alt="NPM Downloads" /></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master" alt="CircleCI" /></a>
<a href="https://coveralls.io/github/nestjs/nest?branch=master" target="_blank"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/nestjs/nest/badge.svg?branch=master#9" alt="Coverage" /></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-online-brightgreen.svg" alt="Discord"/></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#backer" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg" alt="Backers on Open Collective" /></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective" /></a>
  <a href="https://paypal.me/kamilmysliwiec" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-ff3f59.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor"  target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20us-Open%20Collective-41B883.svg" alt="Support us"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/nestframework" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/nestframework.svg?style=social&label=Follow"></a>
</p>
  <!--[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#backer)
  [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor)-->

## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Description

This is a sample Todo application built using [NestJS](https://github.com/nestjs), MongoDB, and REST API. It demonstrates basic CRUD operations for managing a list of todos.

## Features

- **Create**: Add new todos
- **Read**: Retrieve all todos or a specific todo by ID
- **Update**: Modify existing todos
- **Delete**: Remove todos by ID

## Installation

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) installed. Then, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/rasika1995/todo-app.git

    $ cd todo-app
    ```

2. Install the dependencies:

    ```bash
    $ yarn install
    ```

3. Configure MongoDB connection:

    Update your `.env` file with your MongoDB connection string:

    ```env
    MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/todo-app
    ```

## Running the app

```bash
# development
$ yarn run start

# watch mode
$ yarn run start:dev

# production mode
$ yarn run start:prod
```

## API Endpoints

#### Create Todo

- **Method**: `POST`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo`
- **Request Body**:
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Todo Title",
    "description": "Todo Description",
    "completed": false
  }

#### Get All Todos

- **Method**: `GET`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo`

#### Get Todo by ID

- **Method**: `GET`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`

#### Update Todo

- **Method**: `PATCH`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`
- **Request Body**:
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Updated Title",
    "description": "Updated Description",
    "completed": true
  }

#### Delete Todo

- **Method**: `DELETE`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`

## Test

```bash
# unit tests
$ yarn run test

# e2e tests
$ yarn run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ yarn run test:cov
```

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://kamilmysliwiec.com)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update README to include information about scheduled tasks

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="http://nestjs.com/" target="blank"><img src="https://nestjs.com/img/logo-small.svg" width="200" alt="Nest Logo" /></a>
</p>

[circleci-image]: https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master?token=abc123def456
[circleci-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest

  <p align="center">A progressive <a href="http://nodejs.org" target="_blank">Node.js</a> framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications.</p>
    <p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="NPM Version" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="Package License" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nestjs/common.svg" alt="NPM Downloads" /></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master" alt="CircleCI" /></a>
<a href="https://coveralls.io/github/nestjs/nest?branch=master" target="_blank"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/nestjs/nest/badge.svg?branch=master#9" alt="Coverage" /></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-online-brightgreen.svg" alt="Discord"/></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#backer" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg" alt="Backers on Open Collective" /></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective" /></a>
  <a href="https://paypal.me/kamilmysliwiec" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-ff3f59.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor"  target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20us-Open%20Collective-41B883.svg" alt="Support us"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/nestframework" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/nestframework.svg?style=social&label=Follow"></a>
</p>
  <!--[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#backer)
  [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor)-->

## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Description

This is a sample Todo application built using [NestJS](https://github.com/nestjs), MongoDB, and REST API. It demonstrates basic CRUD operations for managing a list of todos.

## Features

- **Create**: Add new todos
- **Read**: Retrieve all todos or a specific todo by ID
- **Update**: Modify existing todos
- **Delete**: Remove todos by ID
- **Scheduled Tasks**: Automatically clean up completed todos daily using a cron job

## Installation

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) installed. Then, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/rasika1995/todo-app.git

    $ cd todo-app
    ```

2. Install the dependencies:

    ```bash
    $ yarn install
    ```

3. Configure MongoDB connection:

    Update your `.env` file with your MongoDB connection string:

    ```env
    MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/todo-app
    ```

## Running the app

```bash
# development
$ yarn run start

# watch mode
$ yarn run start:dev

# production mode
$ yarn run start:prod
```

## API Endpoints

#### Create Todo

- **Method**: `POST`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo`
- **Request Body**:
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Todo Title",
    "description": "Todo Description",
    "completed": false
  }

#### Get All Todos

- **Method**: `GET`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo`

#### Get Todo by ID

- **Method**: `GET`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`

#### Update Todo

- **Method**: `PATCH`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`
- **Request Body**:
  ```json
  {
    "title": "Updated Title",
    "description": "Updated Description",
    "completed": true
  }

#### Delete Todo

- **Method**: `DELETE`
- **Endpoint**: `/todo/:id`

## Scheduled Tasks

This application includes a scheduled task that runs daily at midnight to clean up completed todos. The cron job is implemented using the NestJS `@nestjs/schedule` module. It triggers the `handleCron()` method in the `TasksService` class, which deletes all completed todos from the database and logs the results.

To test the cron job, you can modify the schedule to run every 30 seconds:

```typescript
@Cron(CronExpression.EVERY_30_SECONDS)
```

## Test

```bash
# unit tests
$ yarn run test

# e2e tests
$ yarn run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ yarn run test:cov
```

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://kamilmysliwiec.com)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](LICENSE).
